- [Instructor] Before we go on further with the managed
thread factory and the contact service API demos,
let's first quickly take a look at some important pointers
that we need to keep in mind,
and also let's look at the APIs for the earlier demos.
So, you've seen that the demo for managed executor service
and managed scheduled executor service.
In this slide we'll also take a look at the rest of the APIs
that these objects have on them.
Okay, so let's start off.
One is implementations of all managed resources
of the concurrency APIs are provided
by the Java Enterprise Edition product provider.
What I mean is, all the four main services that we see,
the managed executor, managed scheduled executor,
managed thread factory and contact service,
these are the interfaces that the specification of JSR has.
But, the implementation classes for these are going
to be provided by the underlying application server
that you are using.
In our case, it is GlassFish server, okay?
And whenever you are going to change your server,
let's say you tomorrow are working on JBoss
or maybe WildFly,
then these implementation classes
will change according to the underlying provider.
So, what I am gonna do is let's go to our IDE,
and let's look at our reports resource class.
In this at line number 33,
we had injected the managed executor service object.
Using the JNDI look up, right?
Now, what I'm gonna do,
I'm gonna just take this service reference
and come down inside our method.
Let's say inside the generate reports method
and on line number 52
I'll put a simple sys out...
and I am going to say service object...
from JNDI look up, right.
I'm just going to print that service object.
This is just to see
the fully qualified glass name of
this object that gets printed
when you actually run this demo, okay?
So, this is the reports demo
that we are talking about
so I'll go to the D drive
and I'll get rid of all the earlier reports
that we are generated
because this is going to be a fresh run.
So, let's go back and it's diploid.
So, let's go to the Postman tool and yeah,
let's run this URL.
Yeah, so now let's come down
on the GlassFish console and if you see,
yeah, that's the service object from JNDI look up.
And do you see that there is
org.glassfish.enterprise.concurrent.Managed
ExecutorServiceAdapter.
So, this is what I was trying to tell you
that when you talk about the implementation classes
they are going to be specific
according to the server.
So, tomorrow if you are working on
any other application server
these implementation classes will be different.
Please keep that in mind.
The next point is you can configure resources
in the server or
you can use default preconfigured implementations.
What I mean to say by this is
you've already seen this submit
in the previous demos,
but let's revise quickly.
This is a resources tab
and under the concurrent resources
I have those four services, right?
If I go into any one of them,
then we had discussed that
there is a default resource already
configured for you by the GlassFish server.
However, you can also
add your own new resources like that.
So there is a way
where you give configuration information
to your new resource
and then use this resource's JNDI name
to get the managed executor service object
in your application code.
That's totally possible.
But, we just went ahead
with a default implementation
because it's way convenient right now
for this demonstration.
Okay, the next point is
the tasks run with managed threads
from Java EE product provider
whenever you are trying to run tasks
and the threads are now as we know,
the managed resources of the container.
So, all the tasks, all the runnables, callables
that you are trying to write down in your application
they are going to now run with these
managed threads coming from the container.
And when that happens
these threads will run within the
application component context.
So, you may have your EJB
or servelet or RESTful bean.
So the entire contextual information will be available now
on that running thread.
And the last point is,
all the APIs are very similar
to Java standard edition concurrency utilities.
We're going to have a quick look
of managed executor service
and managed scheduled executor service APIs.
Let's go back to the IDE,
and I'll just go down there,
and I'll just grab the service object that we have
and let's take a look at the APIs.
Yeah, so you have execute,
than you have... submit,
the one we used with either a runnable or a callable
and than you have these flavors:
invoke any, invoke all.
And if you recollect,
we've already seen the demonstration
of these APIs in a standard edition project
that we did earlier.
These APIs work very similar
and you are free to try these out
because they're just going to work the same.
This is going to accept a collection of tasks
and then give a results of
futures or it's going to have
invoke any where you just submit a
collection of tasks and returns the result
of only one operation.
So, they are going to behave the exactly the way
they have behaved in standard edition.
Just one point that you've to note here is
that when you talk about APIs like
shutdown and shutdownNow
they are no longer needed for the managed resources,
because these resources are
completely up to the container to manage.
So we don't really need to
go and make that shutdown call ourselves.
So, even if you try a shutdown call
on the managed executor service object right now
it will tell you that this LifeCycle operation
is not supported.
So that's the service object.
Let's close this and come to URL health resource.
And even the APIs on the managed
scheduled executor service
are very similar to what we have done
in the standard edition platform.
So let's say I come down there under the method
and on line number 27 let's say
I get hold of the scheduled executor service.
Yeah, so we've already seen the scheduled API.
Similarly, you have scheduled at fixed rate
and scheduled with fixed delay.
So, those APIs are very similar
to what we have done under standard edition.
So, it will allow you to schedule jobs
in your application,
either at fixed regular intervals
or maybe with fixed definite delay.
So, these pretty much run the same
and the rest of the things for
the rest of the two concurrency APIs
we'll see in the subsequent demo.